A key factor in writing clean semantically rich h tim now is choosing the correct element to describe
a particular bit of content.
So for example in an earlier lesson we learned how to create a bullet list.
But in this lesson we will learn that HTML offers many different list types and sometimes it's a bit
tricky knowing which list type to use to describe your list content.
However by the end of this lesson you will have a firm grasp of the three most common list types.
So let's get started.
We will begin with a list type that you've already seen in action from an earlier lesson.
The Unordered list.
We choose the unordered list when the ordering of the list items do not matter.
This means by changing the order of the list items we're not changing the meaning of the list as a whole
.
So a good example of this would be a grocery list unordered list list item.
Milk bread
carrots.
So if we save and refreshing the browser receive bulleted list and the key point here is that it doesn't
matter if carrots came first.
That doesn't change the inherent meaning of this grocery list to clearly illustrate this point.
Let's look at something different.
Let's look at an ordered list.
So in the text editor will create a new list instead of UL.
We use o l which stands for ordered list.
It also accepts list item like elements as children and will create a list of our morning routine.
So the first list item is wake up.
Then brush teeth then shower then eat breakfast.
If I save and refresh the browser we see that instead of a bulleted list we receive a numbered list
and this is because the ordering matters with an ordered list.
The ordering is changing the meaning of the list as a whole.
So if I'm showing you my morning routine it matters that these items are in a specific order to remember
with the unordered list.
We said that it doesn't matter if Carrots was moved to the top.
It's still the same grocery list but with our ordered list.
What if I moved.
Eat breakfast to sit before wake up all of a sudden this numbered list or this ordered list doesn't
make any sense.
How can you eat breakfast if you didn't first wake up.
So let's go ahead and revert that back to the original order.
And this was all just a long winded way of saying that if the ordering of your items doesn't matter
.
Use an unordered list.
You will and if the ordering does matter.
Use an oh well ordered list.
Now let's talk about the third type of list.
The description list.
I think the name is self-explanatory but let's see it in action.
Let's give ourselves a goal.
Let's imagine that we want to describe a book so this would include mentioning things like the title
the name of the author.
The number of pages the code for the description list element is simply DL.
Now let's begin with the title of this imaginary book inside a DL element.
We begin with the DTL element.
The stands for description term.
So the first term that we're describing is the title of the book directly following the ditty element
.
We add a DD.
This is simply the actual description.
So the title of the book is an imaginary book title.
Let's go ahead and add a colon after title.
Next let's include the author.
So we'll create a another DC element author that may include a DD element.
Brad Schiff is the author of this imaginary book let's include the number of pages.
So when you get the description term term is pages actually number of pages and the description will
say that this book has 500 pages.
Now if we save and then view this in our web browser you can see here is our description list.
Let's review the code structure for creating description lists for each item or thing that we are describing
.
We create one overall description list and then within that we create pairings of terms and descriptions
Now it's important to point out that a term can have multiple descriptions associated with it.
So for example if the book had multiple authors we can simply include a another DD element associated
with this term with the ditty so we could say John Doe is the second author of the book the description
list is very versatile.
So here we've used that as an example to describe a book but we could also use it as a glossary of terms
if we were writing an article and we use phrases or terms that aren't commonly known.
We would simply include the word in the element and then a definition or description of the word in
the Deedy element that's going to bring this lesson to a close to review.
We can use an unordered list when the ordering doesn't matter.
We can use an ordered list when the ordering does matter and we can use a description list and we're
describing something.
I'll see you in the next lesson.